All right.
We know what is the display property however probably your next question is.
Well where we can use that knowledge that we know that some elements are going to be block and some
of them are going to be in line.
Now just to look at a very basic example let's look at a horizontal center.
Now I can tell you right away that the moment you're going to learn everything about flex box and the
grid those are probably going to be your go to things for centering whether horizontally or verdict.
However we can look at some basic examples where we can just do it with good old regular CSX so let's
start first by getting rid of this display in line.
So let's keep them the way they are the way they have been created right away by default.
So I'm gonna get out of business play block and now I'm just gonna say so how we can horizontally center
whatever we're dealing with a block element more in line.
Well first of all let's work with the parent.
So what is the parent.
Well the parent would be body.
I'm gonna head over back to the body.
I'm sorry.
Yes yes.
And I'm gonna select the whole body.
Now the moment I'm gonna write text a line because we know that was the property to actually center
a text.
Notice what's gonna happen.
So the moment I SAVE IT FOR THE BLOCK elements only the text is gonna be centered but they're still
not gonna be centered because they're spanning from one side all the way to another side.
However once I make the screen bigger.
Notice the inline elements we can horizontally center by just using this text aligned properly.
However for the ones that are by default block only the text is gonna be in center.
So your next question probably will be well but how can we center the block level elements or block
elements.
Well let's figure it out.
So you know what.
Let me make this decent size not too big not too small.
And then let's look at them.
So I have block level elements.
Why don't I add some with here.
So I'm going to say for all my block elements I'm going to have a with I don't know 150 pixels.
Let's see what's gonna happen.
So I have my block elements all of them with we hundred and fifty pixels.
And the way we can center them horizontally is by using the margin property that we already covered
in the CSX model.
And the way we're going to right this is gonna be margin.
Then remember we had an option of having a top bottom margin left and right margin now for the top bottom.
We can write whatever you would like but in my case I'm just gonna write zero.
But again please remember you can write 50 pixels or 500 pixels it doesn't really matter in this situation.
What's more interesting is that we can write with left and right auto now what's auto gonna do is it's
literally right away going to place it in the center.
So right now if I have margin zero this is the reason why they're stacked one on top of each other but
what's neat is that they are in fact in the center because now I have some with and I add at the margins.
Now if you don't believe me let me add and not 20 pixels and now this is gonna be top.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Top and bottom.
Now if you're a little bit confused about his auto we could have rewrote this a little bit differently
we could have said it like this much just getting rid of the margins and let's just write for all of
them we're going to have margin then we're looking for left.
And then again we use the auto.
So in this case this is gonna push it all the way to the right hand side because the left margin is
gonna be left for auto.
And then if I'm gonna copy pasted and if we're gonna say let's say margin right is gonna be auto.
Now this is gonna be in center.
So it does this exactly the same thing without top and bottom margin but just works with a horizontal
margins.
Now obviously if you don't believe me I can just come on this out and now this is gonna be all the way
in the left hand side because margin right is gonna be auto right over here but that would be the default
setup anyway.
So if I'm going to come on this out it's gonna look exactly the same way but if we would want to place
in a center the inline element we can use text align center and for the block level element we would
want to use again let me write this same margin and again in this case maybe 20 pixels and left and
right is gonna be auto on you'll see this a lot where we are using is in order to center it.
But again let me repeat that the moment you're gonna learn the CSX flex box as well as CSX grid you
most likely will gonna use them for centering because once you learn them they offer you more options
and they are a little bit more straightforward.